FedRAMP is a government-wide program that promotes the adoption of secure cloud services across the federal government
by providing a standardized approach to security and risk assessment for cloud technologies.
FedRAMP enables the federal government to accelerate the adoption of cloud computing by creating transparent standards and processes for security authorizations
and allowing agencies to leverage security authorizations on a government-wide scale reducing duplicative efforts, inconsistencies, and cost inefficiencies.
Since the FedRAMP Program was created in 2011, the cloud landscape has significantly changed.
Over the past 10+ years, there has been an increased adoption of cloud products and services resulting in increased efficiencies and improved accessibility while also enabling better collaboration, data management, and public engagement.
For example: By leveraging cloud infrastructure, the Government can rapidly deploy and develop new digital services and applications to meet the evolving needs of the public, without being constrained by physical infrastructure limitations.
Cloud-based applications and services can be accessed from anywhere with an internet connection, making government services more accessible to members of the public, regardless of their location.
Cloud-based tools and platforms facilitate collaboration among government agencies, departments, and personnel, enabling better information sharing and coordination.
Cloud-based analytics tools and services enable the Government to process and analyze large datasets, providing valuable insights for informed decision-making and policy development.
Cloud-based platforms and applications can enhance engagement by providing user-friendly interfaces, mobile accessibility, and real-time updates on government services and initiatives.
Additionally, the growth in the number of Software-as-a-Service products provides agencies with advanced software solutions without the complexities and costs associated with traditional software deployment and maintenance.
In 2022, Congress passed the FedRAMP Authorization Act to expand FedRAMP’s reach, enhance its governance structure, and improve the authorization process for secure cloud adoption across the federal government.
Key areas of the draft guidance include how the FedRAMP Program would:
Become a security-first program where the security and protection of sensitive data and systems is prioritized above all else.
Scale the number of FedRAMP authorizations by bringing agencies together to evaluate the security of cloud offerings and strongly incentivizing reuse of one FedRAMP authorization by multiple agencies.
and Streamline the authorization process by automating FedRAMP assessments and processes, consistent with industry best practices.
Please visit "ITVMO.GSA.gov/news/fedramp" to learn more.